in on parental leave since like December.
So I've been out of the building.
So my head is in a different space.
And congratulations.
Thank you.
Yeah, it's my second dance.
My wife's going back to work and I'm full time
for next week.
So I've been sharing for a couple of months.
Congratulations.
That's amazing.
Yeah, yeah.
Thanks.
So yeah, I'll be not at work for like more than six months,
which is great.
Have you started getting sleep again?
Are you?
No, I've taken over the night shift.
Yeah.
So that's my other disclaimer.
Is she getting sleep again?
Yeah.
Like ish.
It's OK.
OK.
You start there.
Yeah.
That's right.
She's she's owning the money now.
So she can she can have the sleep.
So yeah.
Like all right.
So yeah, you have been there since December.
You're out of date.
I understand it's.
Yes.
Yeah.
But you know, I'll do what I
can.
But yeah, record away.
Cool.
But I just wanted to say about that disconnect is we're dealing with a lot of video production
houses that have their own internal policies and standards and as well as like as a way
to receive their final amount of funding.
They need to deliver their production to us as a double.
And it works the same for games, but we've been doing it longer for film and TV productions.
And so they also need to deliver to the funding body as well.
So we are the national government archive.
Then there's the funding body that has its own set of deliverables.
And then there's their what they're archiving themselves.
So there's so many production houses that it's like sometimes tricky to grasp like what
are your own workflows?
How can our workflows kind of alleviate stress on meaning you need into you needing to like
provide different files or so we are often like led by we're not going to want them
to make things that they aren't producing already for the sake of archiving unless like
for games will request DRM free files, obviously.
But it's something that we're conscious of like, okay, you have your own systems.
They're going to differ slightly from ours.
And we're not going to have the time to research what yours actually are.
That was what I was going to say is that there's that gap between how much you can know about
what any specific video games because you don't have the time to just play all the games
or know all the studios so intimately that you're going to know what they're producing
even.
Yes.
Yeah, that's right.
So it's VR, if it's VR, if it's based systems, no, exactly like we could start from there.
So like to give you a little bit of backgrounding about us, we were always sort of set up as
an agency to collect games because we always had a very broad remit for just audio visuals,
audio visual media in general, which is like quite rare worldwide, like I think the reason
games are often not collected is because they're big public institutions, they sort
of fall in the gaps like, well, we can collect books, what are games, we can collect film
what are games.
So like we we've been set up since we were formed in 1984 to be able to like whatever
audio visual media is produced, we can collect.
It's just that they still felt they still fell through the gaps though for a long time
we lost as well, mostly because we were an institution born out of a film collection
and a recorded sound collection, those were like smoosh together and then it was like
in the 90s and 2000s, it was like new media collecting and like the focus was on kind
of like websites, so we still have a national library as well that does.
So video games got stuck into like the software type of space for the longest time.
Yeah, that's right.
And they still fell through that gap between I would say our national library and us as
the national audio visual archive.
So because literally we are the national film and sound archive, that's in our name.
So it was like, how do we had we account for anything else?
Yeah, video games are not going to be on the marquee.
So you end up getting wedged in somewhere.
That's right.
So like a series of fortunate happenings has led to now dedicated positions, government
funding, tax cuts at the federal level, like everything kind of happened at once five
years ago or so to account for a more formalized program on our end.
But it has kind of relied on a whole series of things happening at the same time.
So games were funded at the federal level maybe like 12, 13 years ago, then there was
a change of government, there was a change of government and that stopped.
So when that program started back then, we were like, okay, we do the same for film and
television.
I guess we have to try and figure out how to do it.
Okay.
Good.
So it comes from arts funding, which is a just such a foreign thing to me in Washington
state.
Yeah, I was going to say like I think about it too.
Perfect.
And like, yeah, because our systems are completely different.
So it necessitated needing any kind of heritage foundation for the art gut funding to go somewhere
to produce something the deliverable has to end up somewhere.
That's right.
Yeah.
Exactly.
So thankfully we and that also gives us leverage in terms of actually being able to
request the materials.
So it's not just, we formed a pilot project for games a couple of years before the federal
funding started just because our director had come from the Netherlands from the Institute
of San Francisco.
So they're one of the rare sister organizations.
It's also an audio visual archive with a broad remit.
So there was kind of just like this, yeah, happy coincidence that he came over.
There was no extra funding.
There was no dedicated positions, but he was like, why don't we try and figure it out?
And we're also hosting a traveling exhibition from Australian center for the moving image
in Melbourne called Game Masters, which had gone around the world and then hosted on site.
So it was sort of the thinking, if we're exhibiting games, why aren't we collecting
games?
And so simple thing to say, but also that's completely different.
Yes.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Why are we collecting them?
Oh, yes.
Yeah, for all of these reasons.
So like, yeah, we had found that that program was basically just like getting our internal
systems, which were already quite like format agnostic, which was very helpful because we
could, we'd like film productions that we would receive be able to collect like all
of the social media or if they're like, so we're quite well set up relatively for digital
media assets coming into the collection with some minor tweaks on the back end.
We found it just kind of like came down to, it became very proactive.
It was like the curators having to like cold call developers and that the most of the
job where it was like, hey, we're a government agency, give us this stuff.
And they were like, that sounds great.
At the time, though, like that sounds, that sounds great, but it like, you know, talking
to like team Cherry when they're making silks on, they were like, sure, but we're making
a game right now, like, we'll do that, you know, developers like working crazy hours
and crunching and just trying to get both in meeting them and meeting what things that
they're producing that you are, you are trying to move the Institute to fit them as
opposed to them trying to fit you.
That's right.
And also just like literally just coming down to archiving games is going to be like
archiving games for the comp for a developer themselves is often at the bottom of their
priority list.
So rather than making a game, so like when you come in as a third party, like you're
even down the way bottom of that priority list, unless they're like years later going,
I've got all this physical stuff that needs to go somewhere.
That's everyone that I've run into, whether it's an individual or a small team or a large
team.
Yeah, there's like this philosophical need to preserve, but no actionable, like way to
do it.
So like, they want it, they desire it, they need it, but there's no actual way to do that
in the process of making a game at the develop at the release of a game at the post release
of a game or afterwards that that moment after, even then it's all behind them now, it is
the yeah.
Yeah.
And that's exactly.
And every level.
Yeah.
That's right.
And not not throwing shade on anyone, but like I've seen I've seen on social media developers
like extoll the virtues of preservation and institutional preservation.
And then I get in touch with them and don't hit back and it's like, you know, it's just
like and it's understandable because of how the production has come about.
So it's just such a big thing to produce an entire game is so massive and miraculous
that I yeah, just how it happens is that like the disconnect is there, the philosophy
is there and the not being able to do anything about it is there, which kind of just leads
this unknowable wanting, like this, it's a dread.
It's just a dread inside of all of the other little dreads that come along with making game.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
And like a lot of the conversation around games preservation is still, it's really hard.
How do you do it?
And you want to be right here going, it's, it's, it's not that fun, like it's, you know,
once you've funded it, you're one of the only people who can
say that.
Oh, I know.
I know.
It's like, yes, there are things that lead to it not being, yeah, not being as difficult.
But like the technology to do it is not the hard part.
It's yeah, obviously the people and the rights and everything else matters.
That's yeah.
Yeah.
So, but like now once games were funded again, the federal level games were funded.
With a budget of under half a million dollars is with eligible to receive funding.
So there was a whole bunch of projects that are now captured under that funding.
That's a interesting mark, though, because my knowledge of the Australian game development
scene is that it was a lot of corporations in the 2000s, early 2010s, and that was a
bit of a bubble that burst.
And now it's a lot more spread out dispersed smaller teams.
That's right.
And it's capturing like Luke Muscat, for example, who designed fruit ninja, then went to make
a solo game by himself that received that federal funding because that was like, yeah,
a smaller project.
So I guess games, games like that.
Starting over a couple of years, maybe one or two years after that funding started, there
was then a 30% tax cut offset for games over half a million.
So I think the idea is that if you're making like slightly bigger budget game, a double
a game that will have other avenues to receive money from the government at that end, as
well as the hope to attract those AAA developers back to Australia to make.
Which is like sort of still happening, like Sledgehammer's here, UV Soft has offices here.
Riot is here as well.
So there's kind of satellite studios that are taking advantage of that offset.
Which is a little bit of a form from when like SEGA was there in Sledgehammer.
That's the hope, I think.
Okay.
That makes sense.
Yeah.
So sort of like the more Canadian model, I suppose, on that side.
So that we are also written into tax legislation as a collecting institution that if you are
taking advantage of that offset, you need to deposit your materials to the NFSA.
So when they receive their final tax certificate, they get a letter that says, hey, this,
you know, the NFSA exists and they need to now collect your games under this tax legislation.
That sort of, there's less of a direct trigger there than us, you know, the world screen
Australia is the funding body withholding funds until we can say that everything has
been delivered to us, which is how the funded materials works.
This is just like, because of like tax secrecy, we don't, we're not allowed to know who's
receiving that offset until they declare to us, here's our game, we receive the offset.
So compliance is an issue there, but it's still like some form of automation for receiving
contemporary games.
And then obviously, we have like, you know, approaching 50 years of catch up of a small
industry before then, which we spend all other parts of our time doing.
Yeah, let's get into the dating gritty then of just the library basics of what your role
is in, what is the scope of the collection, what's the timeframe that you're working
with?
Is that part?
Yeah, sure.
Yeah, so as these like deliverables, the funding came up again, the tax offset came
up again, we were then able to argue for dedicated, one dedicated position at least at that
time.
Yes, it was happening, it was happening on a project basis, but then think the ball
started to sort of roll and formalize, and then we were like, we need someone to be
a steward.
Yeah, material, exactly.
So one position was created as digital games curator within a curatorial team that sort
of focuses mainly on collection development, but we split our time across like collection
interpretation and some traditional curation of like exhibitions or online writing, like
it's sort of like multifaceted, but mainly your collection development in our area.
And that position was made in 2022, and then we received a support position in 2023.
So there's two full-time medications.
Yeah, that's recent.
Yes, yeah, so yeah, we're very thankful that we've got, yeah, two dedicated positions
just focused on games because I know that's where, and even people who are working on
games, institutionally split their time between that and maybe like all digital media or
there it is, all contemporary media.
So yeah, we're really thankful that they were recognized as requiring a steward, as
you say, so that, yeah, that role, those roles now are responsible for developing policies
around games, hopefully that is sort of beginning to spread out across the institution
because it's a lot of like advocating for specific like conservation needs, like looking
at existing policies and making sure that games can fit into those as well.
And when other other areas are developing policies or procedures, just making sure
that games fit into that model too, which as a new collecting area, there was a real need
for that.
So we've developed a lot of our own policies within just the games team, but now that
goes to its abilities.
That's a big part of why I'm here because I found out yesterday that VGA Chef was part
of building the initial policies with you and yeah, yeah, so the and the reason we
conducted that the survey and the survey report was really just me being new to the
role going, okay, let's get the lay of the land internationally because rather than starting
from scratch, I made an effort to talk to as many people internationally as possible
and just kind of understand what my role could be or should look like.
Yeah, that's literally what I'm doing right now.
Just yeah, exactly.
Yeah, which was great fun and necessary and has but kind of still wanting to allow for
flexibility within the two games roles to sort of like, like, like we have some flexibility
in games deliverables in terms of what we're bringing in and some flexibility in our collection
development policy as well, like because we're like, we don't want to say that we understand
all production pipelines and say that we know exactly in terms of what contemporary
media we want to get in, I still want to be quite flexible about, will you tell us what
you're making so that we can receive what you're producing and represent you accurately.
So yeah, in terms of scope of those positions, so it's in line with our existing collection
policy for the institution, we collect material produced in Australia by Australians or about
Australia, there's there's also like, we're currently like this year, we should be publishing
a new collection policy, not just against the sky kind of actually lands in there being
set. Yeah, that I believe is in the collection just because of, yeah, like, crash bandicoot,
we don't really like, yeah, yeah, yeah, like, those TAS mainly again, yeah, like, yeah,
that kind of is like that, but yeah, so there's also, we have historically done some collection
of international works that were seen as having a cultural impact on Australia or Australians.
That was something that was really formed around like our feature film collecting that
has, yeah, we're still, I still think the organization is figuring out the scope of international
works collecting because we understand we don't want to duplicate collections from overseas
necessarily, but yeah, so we are conscious of having that primary focus on Australian
produced works and going from there. So that also includes hardware peripherals like Australian
industry, anything we'd like that was only distributed in Australia. We have now arcade
machines, we have some pinball machines as well. So yeah, like, but yeah, mainly with
that Australian production focus with, does that reciprocate at all? Because like, I feel
like if hardware manufacturers knew that they had a place, a heritage place that they could look at
and see their stuff, that that would help them want to do that more. But I don't know if that's
thinking too big for what is, you know, pinball machine manufacturing.
Yeah, it's, that's a good question. A lot of our hardware collecting, because we also, we have a
like physical, we have like a hundred year old building in Canberra, in capital city that we're
in. This also gets into space, like just because these are. Yeah, exactly. So we also have like,
we're up into the public for visitation, we have a cinema, we have exhibition space, we have
exhibition spaces, you know, like cafe courtyard. So we've got people constantly coming through the
door wanting to see. Yeah, so we, some of our collecting has been around supporting exhibitions.
So what would look like in the space? Yeah, so making sure that, yeah, when we're collecting
a game, we'll collect, we'll make sure to have, exhibitable parts of that as well, make sure to
have the big box, you know, make sure to have, and have it collected in a way that it's not marked
up, like, for, you know, we're not putting barcodes on the front of something that we're having an
exhibition space as well. So yeah, we do have to, some of that has been collecting around
what people would want to see in an exhibition space as well. Yeah. Okay, yeah, that would help,
that would impact the collection scope a lot. Yeah, definitely. And you said this starts in 85,
uh, the collection materials up to today. So our institution was, um, we have inherited a
collection from the 30s. So in terms of our film and sound collection. So we were really,
it's one of the world's oldest audio visual archives in terms of the collection. We became, um,
uh, uh, of the National Institution in 1984, but we have games, uh, in the collection going back
to the 70s. Okay, that's what I was asking for. Yeah. Yeah. So, so our, um, uh, like, um,
there was a relatively healthy home brew scene in Australia, a lot with some of them. Yeah.
So, um, some of the first microcomputers had, um, healthy home coders making and distributing
their games. I was just wondering if you had access to that kind of stuff, because that was
exactly what I figured the Australian, you know, scene at its agency started as. That's right. So,
yeah, we have, um, uh, talked to and collected from devs from around that time who have, uh,
held on to materials and donated them as well. Uh, so like, um, and we have examples of hardware,
like the micro computer, micro B computer, which was an Australian made, uh, computer that was,
um, primarily made for like schools, but it did seep into just being like an affordable
computer that was a lot of, uh, um, like John Parsfield, for example, who went on to
found Chrome studios who did a lot of licensed games, but also Tiber Tasmanian Tiger on the
PS2 era, um, got his start. Oh, also made like Halloween, Harry in the 90s and then, uh, which
was alien carnage in the US and then back to like, back the G, um, uh, alien carnage got his start
coding on one of these micro B computers. So yeah, we've got a collection from him from like
the late 70s. Um, we've also got like, uh, like electronics, magazines, built, uh,
homemade computers from around the same time. Uh, and, um, I'm, I'm, I'm also really interested in,
like, um, uh, because our broader remit of the organization isn't just like digital
games. It's like audio, visual media as a whole. I'm interested in like, you know,
Australian developed software dating back to the 50s, um, like Nimrod, the game that was
exhibited in London, um, uh, in, in the early 20th century was developed by an Australian
who had moved to England. So there's like lots of Australian connections with early computing as
well. Um, which is like, so when, when I said back to the 70s, kind of and beyond and, and the rest.
Um, and then that's, uh, so that's a lot of our, uh, gap filling work, uh, that is ongoing,
um, that's, that's heavily proactive. Um, and then for the side of the, the scope and stuff,
this, it's not just going to be video games when you, uh, are, is, is the game package,
the thing that you were asking for at the end. Um, does that include any other materials or?
Yeah. So we have, and I can email you this, we have a, uh, specific sort of table of what we're
asking for. So we say, um, these are all your, everything is like,
digital. So, um, we do receive, we do ask for like, if you're producing any physical materials,
we'd love those as well. But, uh, as a core, we'll say we need your game in Darian free format.
Um, we, we then, uh, do testing and QA on our side to make sure that it is actually
Darian free. Um, we say like, we also receive like, um, online only games or like live service
games. So we're, we're kind of like sending if, if your game like is primarily online,
then don't bother giving us, um, if it needs, if it needs to like find home to a server.
We don't really want those Xs in the collection, but we'll ask to represent those
through all the ways. Um, so any titles coming in, we asked for at least an hour of game play.
Now, um, yeah, uh, we will ask, which sometimes, uh, someone will be like, well, I'm making like,
a road like it's only five minutes long, and we'll be like, okay, just give us what you think
best represents. Right, an hour or what represents the, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Exactly. And some will be like, hey, I've got play through my entire thing. So we're like,
great. That's, that's fine. We'll take 12 hours away. Um, we will ask for all publicity
materials, um, including like social media, social media content. So outside of, um, yeah,
press kid, um, but like everything on the YouTube channel, everything that I've made for like,
Instagram reels, um, anything that they're cool. Yeah. So, um, which is great because sometimes
that can, uh, uh, uh, consist of what would be like a developer's blog of like back in the day
is now like updates on, you know, TikTok reels or the like. So, um,
that a form where they do the links or they, and then you grab them. Yes. Or whatever out
or the media out. Yeah, we try to make it easy for them. A lot of the time, their stuff will be
already on a Google Drive. So we'll just say, just give us your Google Drive links. Yep. Um,
uh, and for their like, um, social media content that will sometimes have to download that. But
we can be often like, it's basic. We'll provide like a Dropbox link if they don't have one already,
but 90% of the time they'll be like, it's already uploaded here because I've had to send it to
the screen agency already. Um, but if we're just doing proactive collecting, um, we will still
ask for, we'll still use that table to base what we are getting into the collection. Um, we can't,
we can't demand anything that's not publicly available, but we do have a paragraph at the end
that's like, we would love source materials. We would love. That was my next question. Yeah.
Stuff like asana stuff, like, uh, you know, documentation and stuff.
That's right. So like we like, we want your pitch decks. We want anything that you haven't
made publicly available, but we can't really. Yeah. Like, which is good to give the developer
something where they can say, no, and then they know their, yeah, because we're not the
funding bodies. Well, the funding body would demand like pit decks, but yeah, asking for like,
uh, source code, uh, or like assets gets a bit weird. So yeah, we'll often just like, make our
case for the importance of it. The great thing about games devs is they're very preservation
literate. Like I guess they're they as opposed to, um, other sectors that they have like an
understanding often of emulation or trying to get a game working from when they're a kid and like,
what goes into like games preservation makes like headlines from like games, news websites,
like there's kind of there's some literacy that's built in that you don't see in other areas as
well. So when we make our case for it, there's often like, um, a lot of understanding or devs
at the beginning of the project before they do, then like seeing what we're requesting, wanting
to deliver that material to us, which is fantastic. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, yeah, that you still will,
you still will get some people that would like, I just want my money because what do you need?
Yep. Here's my stuff. Like, um, but yeah, there's there hasn't really been a reticence to hand
over material, which is great. Um, uh, but yeah, we have, uh, worked out kind of, and, and that,
that list as well is evolving. So we'll be like, um, asking for a certain number of screenshots
that may change. Or I found out that one of the state funding agencies actually asked for like
commentator video, gameplay video. So interesting. Yeah. That's something that we might explore
in the future too. It's like, well, if you're already producing this for your funding body,
of course, we'll want that as well. Yeah. Um, it's play as contextualizing the play that is in a
game is, is super valuable right now. A hundred percent. Yeah. So, um, yeah, we have an understanding
that like, um, games, game preservation without those source materials is constrained, but like,
if that's what we get, that's great. That's if we don't get that, that's fine too. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, that's part of the government work is you're not getting the bare minimum.
You're getting a minimum threshold that then people can be, you know, go over if they want to and
stuff. Um, that's right. And the other thing I'll say, like on, um, like what we're, what we're
seeing on games funded over the 500,000 level. Yeah, barely. And if those are offline games, like,
that's just, yes, that is, that makes you would know that's, that's, that's not where contemporary
games at least at that budget are heading. Um, so those are even more constrained in terms of
what we can get and how we can represent represent those in the collection. Like, is this going to
be a game that hasn't so much turned off in two years that we can like say, great, we have game
play video and they gave us some. I wish that was a can of worms we can get down to because there's
so many directions with online. Yeah. Yeah. Do you, uh, everyone's at answer this kind of the same
way, but, uh, the, you're, you're back end to CMS program stuff. Did you have to do a lot to
change it for hitting video game stuff in material in? Um, just minor changes. So we had an open
source type project. Okay. We use, uh, what's called media flex, which is, uh, a, uh, media
asset management system rather than a digital asset management system. So we, we do both of our
digital and physical cataloging in that system, um, which when I started, I was like, that's how
everyone does it. And then I went around the world and was like, this is weird. Well, I know it
does it the same way. Yeah. No one does it like, yeah. Um, so, but it, like, it has its benefits in
that if we have a physical carrier, we can digitize that and that can then hang off of the physical
carrier as like in the same, um, in the same, um, uh, program. Uh, so we can kind of track where
that's come from a bit easier, but it does mean we're also in the middle of, um, deploying our
actual digital asset management system. So we're, we're kind of yet to see how that will interact
with incoming digital material. Um, what we did have to do is, um, and regularly we have to like,
we want to represent every physical carrier, um, in like by name when it's coming to the
collection too. So we'll have to give work on the backend to say, yeah, yeah, this is a micro
B cassette tape at this, you know, um, so we'll get those added to, to the list of what can be
accepted. Um, but it, because it was very a flexible system already, um, it could, but it's
approaching like 15 years old as well. So there's probably something here around it. That's,
yeah. That's, that's kind of parts of the things that I'm looking into just because I
need to know just librarian ship stuff. Um, yeah, I want to skip around just because we
got caught onto a whole bunch of the things I was going to ask. Um, just for a real quick,
before we get into collection development policy stuff, um, do you do any, um, loans or, uh, usage?
I think of like various government usage things, but yeah, other organizations internationally or
just in the nation that cross with museums and stuff, or anything like that.
Not, not a huge amount, I think, because visibility has been, um, an issue initially.
What, what we've been doing is, um, we've been to, for the past few years, all of the
digital games, research association conferences in Australia, the, the local chapter of digra,
just to meet games, researchers and find out what they're doing both so we can, um, kind of collect
to what is being researched and also let them know that we exist. And, um, we can, that we have
material that's not necessarily available online. But I think we, we, we fall under that same
problem that exists internationally of like the assumption that everything's online means that
we, we don't have to be there forever to look at. Yeah. Um, exactly. So we have hosted
researchers that we've met, um, through, uh, that conference on site, um, uh, who have been, um,
uh, both just interested in seeing what we're doing and having a look, uh, and
have, have, having like a specific area of research that we've been able to provide access to.
But, um, it's been, it's been kind of strange doing that as your collection is still growing,
like to say, yes, we may, we may have some materials that are relevant. And then like,
we blinked and in the past couple of years, suddenly we've got 10 to 10 to 1000s of relevant materials
in the collection. Um, the other, the, the other thing I'll say about that is, um, because we
are like historically a lot of our access has historically been built around being like a film
archive, which has sometimes worked as being like a film library where, um, documentary makers are
like licensing footage from us that we are digitizing. Um, that, and because I'll, I'll,
talk carefully. Yeah. But, um, that makes revenue. So, um, yeah, uh, that, that becomes a primary
access focus of an organization. Um, is that work with games, though, which are not linear.
It's not as easy. No, I have a portion of a game. That's exactly right. And because that doesn't
correlate where, where like games collections have grown out of libraries, I think it has become
easier to support, um, access to those like on site, like, um, even if it's like wheeling out the
hardware to show someone amazing, um, or have, or have reading worries. Um, I mean, that,
that's how it's worked for those organizations, not necessarily us, not that I haven't done that,
but because we have grown out of an audio visual archive, um, access like parcel with it. Okay.
Yeah. That's so far from a reality around my part of the world. Uh, yeah, we still, we still
have like viewing booths, uh, but it's a very bespoke process when, um, we do need to provide
access, but there hasn't been the requests that the demand hasn't been, um, sufficient enough for
us to like formalize those processes, I would say. So yeah, if we received, if we received more
demand, we would try and like work on those workflows a bit more. But at the moment, it's,
it's been fine to be a bespoke process because, you know, there hasn't been an influx, but, and
and that's just a part of it being such a young medium. Um, film researchers know how to research
film, uh, games, do not know how to research video games, nor do we have the tools to access,
you know, certain parts of video games or, um, exactly. Anyway, we call our chunks.
Yeah. 100% which is why I'm glad like our organization has supported us to go to those academic
conferences. Yeah. Being lined up with Ziggra, uh, that seems to be a hub for a whole lot of
the Australian game scene. It just comes up a lot in everything that they've said, uh, in a way
that lines also with the indie independent development scene in Australia, which are very
tight knit from everything that I've heard. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. And, and just to like,
just to be visible at those and to be known as has helped immensely. But yeah, it's like,
it's we're a relatively small country with a smaller games academic scene. Just quite a few
scholars that are also developers and vice versa in a place. I don't do that anywhere else.
That that's right. So I think it's just about like showing your face and, um,
you know, hey, even if you don't have something you want to see, just come visit us and say hi
and walk around the building. Um, we are in like a city with a population of like 400,000. So
it's not, we're not in Sydney or Melbourne where a lot of that activity takes place. But
sometimes it's like, if you pass through on your way from one city to another, just pop in and say
hi. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Now that makes sense. I like that. That actually kind of works and keeps, uh,
no, it doesn't keep you too busy. Lots of it. Yeah. That's, that's right. And if that changed,
that's a great thing because we get to formalize that. Right. Right. But you definitely understand
that your, your clientele are people that are, are kind of passing through and away and, um,
they'll be looking for very specific needs and less brout. Yeah. That's right. And like that,
that at the moment has been supported by, um, the curators, like the two curators. Yep. We do,
we do have a separate access team, but they are very set up to, um, provide access to like,
you know, our traditional aid. You'll curate exhibitions for folks coming in. There's, there's
certain. Yeah. We'll sort of be like, we'll pull out stuff that you might want to see that you can,
you can spend the day going through. Um, but, but yeah, that, that one day, I would like to see
the access team do that work rather than the games. Yeah. You that seven days a week or five
days a week or? Yeah. Five, five days. We're full time. Yeah. So we're, we're like, um,
yeah, I think we, we, we're currently in that space, which, which I've heard a lot internationally,
where it's like, um, uh, you're the weird new format. So a lot of the work will just go to you
because they'll be like, I don't know how to do this. I don't want to learn how to do this so you
can just continue to do it. Okay. Um, so yeah, like I said, the, the, um, advocacy part of our
role has been like, you can learn how to do this. I don't want to do all of this. You can like,
spread the love and that's great advocacy. No. I, okay. So that actually answers like a
bazillion of my other questions all at once. Um, and this one's kind of a weird question part of
it being a young medium. It's important to ask though. Um, is there any need? Do you do a lot of,
a lot of accession? Do you do any weeding or deaccession from stuff? What does that look like
if you do? Yeah. So that so far has been for, um, carriers that we couldn't successfully digitize.
Um, and mostly like floppy disks. So we have, um, we, we aren't digitizing at the point of
ingest that will be done later. So whatever, whatever fail rate we have will weed out those,
um, unsuccessful copies. Um, that's, that's where our focus is being on right now. Um,
on just like technical failure, really. Yep. Yeah. You don't have to weed for space or for size or for
a lot of things right now because it's just because you're building, you're growing.
That's right. Yeah. Always check it and see how that works for folks. Um, yeah. We, we are,
we are definitely doing that in other areas of the collection. Like, absolutely. We just, um,
we just had an auction for all of our excess 78 discs and music discs, which the infinite archive
purchased. So we shipped like powers of 78s. Yep. Uh, over to the US for copying that, um,
as part of that project. So that freed up like an enormous amount of space.
So awesome. That's such a good feeling. Exactly. So that there are other, there are other areas
that are, um, heavily, heavily waiting. Um, okay. So we've only got like a little bit of time,
but I'm going to ask big, big questions. Um, for collection, what time do you do? Like,
yeah, I'm, I'm happy to chat. I just don't want to spend too much time. I'll just hang out all day.
Um, I, I want to know about what's changed over time with the collection of Elton
Policy. What kind of needs did a rose as, as the role has been developed, as you've learned more
about what best ways to archive and store games. Yeah. So at the moment, our, our, um,
our collection policy at the, uh, wider organizational level, um, has been very broad. Uh, and so that,
like, because you're reporting abroad. Yeah. That's right. And it'll sort of like, it,
but it won't necessarily break down formats. So games is just kind of like slipped in under there.
We're still developing, um, a current collection development strategy of which games will be a part
at that, um, top organizational level. Okay. Um, uh, it just kind of tears to this where there's
the top level and then there's what you're going to, that's exactly what we'll have. We'll have our,
collection of Elton Policy. And then under that, you'll have your strategy, which would be a bit
more granular, um, about what we will and, um, uh, that might mention specific formats that might
mention. Um, you know, we're light on this. We'd love more of this. We'd love less of this. Um,
and then underneath that, uh, we, um, would have our collection development plan. So that will be,
this is what we're doing in the next year, uh, to achieve the goals of the, um, of the strategy
and the policy above that. So, um, I think the hope is that while we have, um, uh, outdated versions
of kind of all of those documents that those three would live, um, in harmony with each other.
And then, um, our, our smaller team would have our, um, uh, kind of more informal, uh,
collection and strategy around games specifically, um, which is still kind of not where I would
fully want it to be because it's just being like us writing about what we do. Like this,
this is the way that materials come into the collection. Um, and as, as we have been growing
the collection, it has really just been like, we want it all, like, that's great, bring it all in.
Um, that, that in the next year or two is going to have to be refined to be like
more of, we don't want this. Um, this is how great her like, yeah, like, like, just more on that.
Um, even like specific technical level of like, we don't accept these formats. We like, you know,
we avoid, um, you know, looking at like mobile, uh, mobile archiving, like what,
what have we found in the collection that, um, we haven't been able to recover. So,
let's not bring it into the collection in the first place. So that's, that's where I see that
document evolving. But at the moment, it's really just kind of speaking.
And I thought the plan level is sorry.
Now that the plan's level specifically, that that would just, I, I think strategies
on the middle level. Yeah, that, that, um, I mean, yeah, if, if we were, um,
if we were good, I think we would, we would like have a yearly plan that we would, um,
also regularly update the strategy about that plan on, on the games level. But I think like,
because they're just, they're just the two of us. Well, like, um, that, that's, that's the ideal.
I don't know if we'll get there, but, but we have like an evolving, uh, strategy that we'll kind of
update that, but to be able to sift out specific formats of, you know, just even just file types
has been, is that one of the things that's just really purposeful with the, the development plan
is to make sure it saves you a lot of time and energy.
That's right. And at the same time, um, there's, we have a digital preservation team with its
own policies as well. So we'll be hopefully, hopefully like avoiding any overlap of what,
what their policies are getting into as well. So really, it's just like helpful for us to have
a document to say like, these are all the ways that we're bringing in material into the collection.
Um, but we haven't yet had to sit down and go, let's do like, this is taking up a lot of our time.
Um, like, for example, like we're spending a lot of time on contemporary games and we're
not doing a lot of proactive work. Let's like try and balance that, that, that, that's the next step
for us. I think to kind of go to that. That's really, really impactful. Because that's what I've
been seeing as a thing that a collection of Elton Platt policy can do. Uh, but I'm in this position
where, um, it's for a nonprofit that is very public online. Uh, and so it's the really boring
document that is super helpful for the organization, but it will also be perceived by very hungry
public folks. So trying to make sure I don't make something that puts more on their plate
because people have questions. Yeah. And it does also take a lot of things off the plate.
That's right. We need to point to a publicly available document for like very passionate
people to sometimes tell them why we can't accept their materials as well. So we, we need to,
yeah, we, we have at the, at the, um, organizational level, our collection policy is public. And yeah,
we do use that to say you've offered us like, uh, an eight mill Charlie Chaplin film. This is why
we don't want it in a collection or, um, with examples, you know, everyone, everyone has footage
of the Queen's visit in 1954 in Australia that they think is special and unique because like,
the family has held onto it for like, you know, that long that we say everyone was getting cameras
around that time. So everyone has footage of that. So we're kind of like well represented on that
scale as well. So you want to be sorry that your family heirloom is common. But yeah, yeah, like
let people down nicely. But sometimes it's helpful. Like I think for the VG, um, HF as well to like
say, um, yeah, this is specifically what we are not interested in, but also like, um,
at the, at the strategy level, you might be talking about like these are the other organizations that
do similar work that collections might be better suited to go towards. That's what it's been feeling
like is that a lot of this messaging is going to be about where people should go. Even though we
know that there's just a lot of needs that are not being met from nonprofits. So we're giving a
approximation of where you might be able to go. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like, it's one thing for a
policy document to be like, it's a really fine balance, I guess, to be able to say like,
this is what we can realistically achieve. And this is like what we would love to do. And to make
that document more towards this end rather than this end, like it's like, yeah, to that that's,
that's kind of like, um, rather than like making motherhood statements about, yeah, like, not
realizing like, spices and issue, you know, funders are an issue. Like these are like, you know,
they should be a part of the document as well around and just like, this is what we're here for.
Yeah. It's a hot balance. Interesting. Okay. Yeah. That was exactly the, that's the balance that I'm
playing with. Um, yeah. Yes. Oh, big, big, big last main thing that I really need to hit on today.
Um, with, uh, looking at policy and how do you negotiate just, how do you write down like what
the rights, the legal aspect, the, um, because there's just so many parts involved in a video game.
Um, how do you manage that so that it could live in the collection without being messed with?
Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's a really good question. Um, I don't know the answer to the question.
Yeah. I don't, I don't know. Like, we are, um, thankfully rights are something that
with, without like huge access pressures, um, uh, we're, we're really well covered
being a lucky country for preservation exceptions. So, um, yeah, you know,
talking to some countries that like we can't make preservation copies about
collection, like we can't digitize our city wrongs, you know, um, thankfully, man, they'd be
they're labeled as a, this is a preservation copy of the work. Oh, well, there's countries where
they're like, yeah, this thing on the shelf, that's the thing. Like we can't, we can't get this off
that carrier legally. And we're, we're the federal government body for doing it. It's funny.
Um, it makes sense. We, we are lucky to have like enough preservation exceptions to go.
Um, we can make preservation copies as needed. We can like make change. You know, we can, we can
adequately store the material. We can wonder, um, we can migrate the material. So.
We can upgrade it in some way to a stronger, yeah, matter or something. That's allowed.
Yeah, exactly. We can break DRM, um, to make copies. Um, so like if we're coming across like
old city wrong games that like, you know, we need to use cracks to get access to web,
we're able to do that. Also kind of trickle down from the film and the film.
Type is that, that makes sense. That's, that's right. So, um, our, our, um,
that is a late 20th century policy. Yeah, which is, which is really coming out of like,
libraries being really good at, um, uh, expressing their needs to the, for the
presidential, not so much like us. Um, but yeah, benefiting from the work of others,
in the library space, just specifically, um, I think where we are in a very similar space
that the US has been arguing for remote access to like software collections. That's, that's kind
of the next hurdle. But, um, you're in that same hurdle then. Yeah, yeah. Um, which like that
conversation started, um, which is not, not, um, I know your conversation in America is,
uh, specifically about software. I think ours is more just about remote access to like cultural
collections, um, of which, of which, of which software would be bundled up in that conversation.
So like, we don't yet have an antagonistic peak body that's like, you know, fighting us about,
um, uh, software specifically. Yeah, it's more, it's more just, um, uh, yeah, the conversation is
around like, you can't travel across the country to go to the place that holds the thing. How, how
do we actually, it's a big country, how, and, and so it becomes about, it becomes about land.
It becomes about how wide Australia is such a massive part of the day.
Yeah. And, and then, and then there's all like, and the next part of that is like,
which, which, um, I think needs to be part of the conversation is like, there are going to be
academics on the other side of the world interested in collections that we have that aren't going to
fly here to, um, you know, 24 hours later, look at collections as well. So, um,
it becomes a big sound in lots of ways. That's right. So those are where those, um,
rights conversations will head. But as I said, the demand isn't yet there on the software side
to push those. I think we're just going to like slide in alongside other forms of media and just be
like, um, great. This is, but, but, but, but once, once again, the technology is there, like,
emulation is a service infrastructure. We have a network in Australia for, um, that has been joined
by like national library, state libraries, um, galleries, museums, they're all part of, um,
the infrastructure to provide remote access. Uh, so like they could put that switch to allow it,
but at the moment, uh, I think that that's sort of like, um, still in development and might mean
that like, hey, you can go to your closest library and access our game from our collection or like
source materials from our collection. If you just go down the road to a library that has this
emulation is a service infrastructure is found. But that's like the bare minimum we're hoping for
because we're just all looking at it. We're looking at the, the remote library tools that already
exist and for every other media. That's, that's right. And where are these different? Yeah,
like, uh, I'm keeping a very close eye on what's happening over there because I, I, like, as,
as things go, like, um, uh, our, our laws will kind of like tend to mirror yours
five to 10 years after, after the ends have happened over there. So yeah, we're keeping a close eye,
um, what's happening there. But in terms of like building that into, give it five year run away
because we make stuff right and then you don't know where it's going to go. Let it, let it settle
before you adopt it. I think so. I think, I think it's more like if, if an access policy is being
developed by that area of our institution, um, hopefully the games team will be consulted
about, like, software remote access. We can have a, have a look at that. Um, but for, for,
and then I'm telling that. Oh, go for it. Go for it. Go ahead. I was just going to say
for rides outside of that, um, outside of access, we're, we're pretty lucky in not being constrained
with what we need to do. Yeah. Okay. That's, yeah, that. And so, yeah, it was about that
constraint actually because it sounds like there's some wiggle room or leeway or something when
talking just about software also, you're, you're saying, you're not just saying that you want
video games looped in with this group, but software at large. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, that part sounds
completely foreign to me. Like, whoa, hold on. You're going to love that software with that. It's cool.
Yeah. Yeah. So, um, we haven't had to separate those in the conversation yet, I think,
because, like, we don't have an ESA, basically, like, that, that we want. Um, so I think without,
without, like, a protective body needing to, like, go, um, because I think over there, it was,
like, right fine. The software people are going to go, that seems, you do your own thing over there.
We're going to, like, do our easy bit over here. That's the, we'll, we'll just let you guys
slip that out. Um, that hasn't happened here. So, like, um, interesting. Yeah. It could, like,
if the AAA space continues to, like, grow, um, and suddenly, like, people are, like,
I don't want to be forced to give that material to the peak body. Um, but no, like, yeah, things,
things have been, things have been good, but I can see how with a, um, with an increase of,
like, money in the sector, I could see how that could change. And yeah, there's, uh, a lot is
going to change over this next couple of years, just the way things have consolidated. Um,
and it's going to affect our scene in really interesting ways. Uh, I don't think it'll be
actually all that bad. Um, yeah. Yeah. No, um, I hope not. And yeah, like, um, with,
with everyone kind of like, yeah, looking at the US and the conversations there, like, yeah,
I think it's, it's really important what happens there for the rest of the world as well. There's,
there's just parts of the, the consolidation of the industry that, uh, ends up benefiting
the, the heritage sector in weird ways. Um, just because less places to pull from.
Yeah. And trying to define types of media, like, with convergence becomes really difficult. So
you're just like, well, that's the audio vision media, which I think is where our remit has really
helped us to go like, it's so cool. It doesn't, it doesn't matter if it's like, it doesn't matter
if it's an art CD-ROM from the 90s or like a demo disc, like, you know, um, you, you know, like,
whatever it is, is it moving images on a screen? That's great. Like, you know, we can take it.
Just let the images move then give it to us. Yeah. So we haven't, we haven't had to have as many of
those like, and, and being a archive is great because it's not like, is it art? Who cares? Is,
is it, you know, is it, is it, is it interactive? To what level is it interactive or not? Like,
who cares? We haven't had to, like, break down things, but like that.
That is what it was like Australia, huh?
Just add the, the philosophy of how reverse it is that video games are soft,
where as opposed to software being video games is very funny. Yeah. If the video's moving, give it
to us. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's amazing. Right. But it's like, yeah, it's also like,
the funding bodies definitely have their definitions, um, of like what they will
avoid fun. So that, that, that happens elsewhere. Yeah. And then that they can, um,
pair it down to much more fine tuned identities from that point. Yeah. That's, that's right.
Paying flexibility to everybody. But like, not the, not the things are perfect. And this,
those gaps still exist, like, because web archiving, we still don't really do, but we do like
social video archiving. So we do it. Oh, yeah. Elements from, we do elements from the web. Um,
and like, we will download stuff from like itch itchir, but like, we're not
crawling the web to, um, as some like libraries would to get content through. So that's still very,
like, incredibly bespoke. And that's the stuff that's missed. Like you can have,
you can have your like, here's the big budget things over half million,
here's the little budget things over, you know, that, but a government still has to be willing to
fund them. So there's like, um, things that might be like small personal pieces or like, um,
uh, educational games, serious games are still like heaps of gaps that you have to do the, the,
um, manual layer before to bring it. Yeah. Yeah. And it's just going to be, yeah.
Thank you so much for all of this. Uh, just the,
uh, having, having a policy development plans and strategies as like containers for a larger,
with how wide the remit is for the, the policy. That's very cool. Very inspiring. If you have
any examples of that, I would love to see it, uh, just to have about, about what, which specifically,
just, uh, your development plan or which kind of your guiding, uh, material, that stuff sounds
all the sudden. I'll happily send those along. Um, yes, some will be more formal than others,
but that would just be like often, like, is this stuff we're doing? Um, can I ask you a question,
like, the big, big, big, VGHF stuff, like, you aren't, uh, like looking at locality at all,
right? You're just like, is it related? Are you looking at language? Are you looking at like,
yeah, you're just like, is it a game? It's, those are the limits of the two people that are working in
the, the, uh, hole. So it ends up becoming a very, uh, biased collection, um, because it is going
to be mostly focused on what they can understand what the thing is. Um, so, so if it's a game's
magazine in different language, that's easy because they speak game magazine. If it is, uh,
promotional material in a different language, if they can understand and identify with the
promotion and the material is, yeah, that's no brainer. We can put metadata to that. If they can't,
then it becomes a bigger issue. Like it's just cause that's the limitation, but it is a, it's a,
they are trying to grab as much as they can, uh, just because of the public nature of it. Um,
yeah, they just have folks that are just like, oh, all of these magazines are so American. Do you
have anything for the British? Do you have anything for Germany? And they're just like, we'll get there.
Yeah. Put up, we'll put a flag on that. Thank you very public person. Um, yeah.
And so then that ends up coming parts of their little scopes and stuff.
Yeah. No, that's really interesting. I don't know, Frank has spoken before about having a focus
on like collecting information over. Yes. The thing itself, like, is that being reflected in
the policy? Is it like, you know, I think that's what, like, we haven't written anything down.
We have nothing on paper at all yet. Um, but there is this definitely a kind of,
I don't know how we're even going to format it, but like, since we're not collecting games,
we're not collecting software. Um, yeah. It means that we can more push things towards like,
uh, out of print, one of one's development materials, um, things that need, uh, digitization.
So the things with digitization needs, uh, and that those become much stronger priorities
than, um, then things might have, that might have other access to other places or something like that.
Yeah. Oh, really interesting. Yeah. Yeah. And so, yeah, it puts it a really funny place
because it means that a lot of people have a lot of expectations of what a video game history
foundation or a library or archive looks like. Yeah. And then there's what it actually,
and then there's, and then there's fill and break. Yes. 100%. Yeah. That's right.
And that's what I was saying about like, yeah, your policy being in a space that's like,
you know, there's like two of us, right? Yeah. You know, like, we can, we can,
this might look impressive, but really it comes down to. And that's kind of the fun part is that
this is because it's going to be public. This is the, the rare collection development policy
that might actually be looked at by people. Um, yes. And it will be accessible on the internet,
on a website that is extremely easy to find. Um, which means it'll probably be looked like
at by other librarians. Oh, yeah. The VJHF ends up always being the place that like,
complete randos show up to, uh, like, you know, news organizations or something that are like,
what's a video game? I typed in video game and you showed up. Can you tell me what a video game is?
Like, yeah. And if you type video game collection policy, like, yeah, that will be the one at the
top. So exactly. Will be the thing that libraries will base their own upon. Yeah. Yeah. So I don't,
I don't want to put that much on me, but at least all the concept is getting away. But it's a fun,
it's a fun thing, I think, to be able to be like, yeah, you can, um, yeah, look at what has been
produced elsewhere to, um, to formulate that and feed back to it. But yeah. Yeah. And that's why
I'm, I'm going beyond the non-profits. I'm going to talk to, um, someone with a non-profit tomorrow.
Um, Greg, here's at the, uh, Library of Congress, who also does a non-profit with old school,
many pictures. Have you talked to any one in Europe? I've not yet. No, when you say the Netherlands
Institute sound video, I noted that down real quick. Yeah. Let's say like, um, F camp, the European
Federation of, um, games, archives, museums, and reservation projects, but, um, eat, eat, yeah,
E F G A M P F camp. Um, they also like the peak body for, uh, games, archives, really. Um, I've
never heard of them. Huh. Yeah. They will be like really helpful to talk to because, uh,
the Europeans are often like quiet about what they're doing, but like you, like, I talk,
you'll talk to France and you'll be like, yeah, you are like 20 years ahead, but you're not
talking about it. Um, mostly because of, um, like in some European countries that have really
well established, like legal deposit legislation, which means that the stuff's coming in, they have
to figure it out themselves, but like the stuff has always been coming in for like hundreds of years.
So, um, yeah, E F G A M P, um, they're, they've got a really active board and friendly, uh, chair
that we definitely helped you out. Um, and points, lots of documentation that wouldn't be online
as well. Yeah. No, that kind of stuff would be so helpful right now.
Yeah. Yeah. Um, they're, they're, they're fantastic. And, um, yeah, they kind of like,
they're, they're, they're own little sphere because they're dealing with like a new legislation,
which like has its own, um, conversations happening separate to all the US stuff. So, um,
yeah, trying to enter that sphere. And I think that'll be helpful too.
I know. I, I know doubt in my mind that that would be super helpful. Um, wow. Okay. I've got
so many things to think about and work with now. This is amazing. Oh, great. Yeah. Talk to you
as a complete treasure. Oh, good. And likewise interesting here about what you're up to.
It's a fun space. Are you heading to, um, save the games is here? I have never been before. I just,
I just heard about it, uh, about a month ago. And I saw this call for submissions for
papers and stuff. And I was just like, I could probably help out.
Yeah. Um, yeah, like, I always wanted to go. Yeah. Um, I went to their first one. So I think
they're hoping to do it every two years. Um, and the first one was two years ago. And that was
where I talked about those survey results. And yeah, it's so good because of like, yeah,
you're, you're at a conference talking about game preservation, not like
digital media heritage or not like software preservation of just game, game preservation.
Um, yep. So yeah, if you get along, hopefully I can see you there.
That'd be awesome. That'd be so cool. Well, thank you for the day. I really appreciate it.
Oh, no worries. Uh, and have a good evening.
And yeah, I'll, I'll hopefully send you through some of that documentation.
So please, please, if you have any other, uh, the thoughts on who to talk to, too.
I'm all earsome. Just running around like a crazy person, just talking to whoever will listen.
Great. And yeah, there's, there's more of us Australians down here on the museum side too.
So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, wonderful. Well, thank you. I'm going to stop recording here.